So hey, welcome to warm fuzzy feelings! In this video, we're going to learn to
listen to our gut, when we say that things don't quite feel right. To remove
compiler warnings and not get comfortable with them, and to refactor code
that actually doesn't need refactoring, so that we have removed that
needling feeling that, that problem with the WORD_LENGTH, what was causing
it, and what was going on. Let's get to the bottom of that, even though we've
patched over it. Let's not patch over problems, let's get to the base of them.
So, welcome back fine people! The first thing I want to do
is remove the compiler warning that we have. I don't like leaving this
in. We have " 'GetValidGuess': not all control paths return
a value". Now, let's remind ourselves why that happens. It happens because the computer doesn't
realize that we could go around this loop forever, basically, with
the user never ever submitting a valid guess. So, if we look in our
code and see where that actually manifests, it's under the GetValidGuessMethod() here,
and it's because it doesn't realize that this
load of case statements are jointly exhaustive. Not the same as
mutually exclusive, my philosopher friends tell me, but it doesn't realize these are jointly exhaustive
and it doesn't connect the idea of return Guess here, with the exiting of the
loop. So the first thing I want to do is just remove this error, because we shouldn't
ignore warnings. We've ignored it long enough, and at this stage,
you will start to develop like a scab over that and think to yourself, well it's OK to
ignore warnings. It's not really, let's get rid of it. OK, so I want to instill
all that into you. So, it's going to be a challenge for you to try and get rid
of this warning, by slightly refactoring this method. Now, if that's above your head, don't worry
about it, but just have a go see how you get. Maybe close Visual Studio,
take a .zip of the project file, so you can go back, or if you're using source
control, make a commit. And then, come back and have a go,
try and remove the error. If you mess up your code and you can't even get it to compile, don't worry,
just watch my solution. But if you're advanced enough, let's get rid of this error, refactor.
So, here's your challenge!
OK, so welcome back! Now, the way that I'm going to remove
this problem is, I'm going to lift my guess here just to a
higher level. I'm going to define the guess, up at the top, before we even go into the loop.
So I declare it! I'm going to declare it before we even go into the loop! What that allows me to do,
further down, is rather than returning the guess here under default,
it allows me to return the guess after we leave the loop.
So, if we return the guess after we've left the loop, we can be sure that every single
code path returns a value, because we're always going to eventually get out of here, right
I don't want to remove, however, the default case. I think it's a good practice to
always think about what happens, if you don't catch things in your case statements.
Now this case, the default means that we're assuming, and it is
an assumption, but we're assuming the guess is valid.
As we've exhausted all of our checks, so we assume the guess is valid, and
because it wants some code in here, we're just going to put a break in. OK.
Now, let's try that! You see the error
has gone away, and it still works! Now, you may say, why am I even doing anything
with valid guesses here, when we've already kind of patched over the problem?
Well, that leads me into the next topic. I don't want to leave nasty
code behind the scenes, when we've solved the problem. We've solved the problem of the
length of the letters, because we will now will no longer allow the user
to submit a guess of an invalid length.
However, the problems that it was causing beforehand are still there behind the scenes
and that's not a nice thing. And where are they? Well, they're in
the SubmitGuess() method. The SubmitGuess() method has
some issues. Now, the first issue is with its name. It's not really just
SubmitGuess() is it? It's SubmitValidGuess()! So, let's rename it to SubmitValidGuess()!
Control, R. Control, R, with it highlighted, enter the word,
and let the Refactor Tool go through and do it, but I would test immediately it still runs
because it doesn't always work, that tool.
OK, that's good! Now, let's also go and have a look at the
SubmitValidGuess() definition. And I want to make a few improvements to this.
Firstly, it's a bit long, it doesn't fit on the screen. It's a bit of a pill to swallow. We don't need to
comment to say that MyCurrentTry() "increments of the turn number". First,
we've got an inconsistency between turn and try, and that's the problem, by the way, with comments.
Of course, as soon as you change your code, they go out of sync. If it's not necessary to say what it does
don't say what it does, the code says what it does. Setup a return value. Come on,
we don't need to say that. Alright, now there's another issue, "loop through all letters in the
guess". Well, yeah but then we, on this outer loop,
we seem to be looping through all letters in the HiddenWord, so let's switch this
around. This should say hidden word, and this guy here should say
guess. OK, now there's another thing. This
HiddenWordLength we've used in both cases, but in one case, we're going through the HiddenWord
and the other we're going through the guess. Now, that's OK because they must be the same length,
but let's make that more explicit. Let's rename HiddenWordLength
to just WordLength, which immediately raises
the question, which word? Which is fine! Let's comment to explain what
we're doing, assuming the
same length as Guess. Now, we've also
said "receives a VALID guess" up here. We've documented the whole method, we've changed
the method name. This method is dependent on receiving a valid guess.
Why don't we do the verification inside the submit method? Because we
want to be able to do this sort of thing, where we submit invalid
guesses and we never even call the submit guess method.
We're just checking it, checking it, checking it, until finally the user puts something
sensible in and then, we SubmitValidGuess(), and we can immediately then increment
the turn number and do all the other good stuff. Alright, so using WORD_LENGTH is
a little ambiguous there, but then, we say that we're assuming it equals the guess. This is
one approach, there are lots of other ways we could do all of this. And then, the rest of this,
I think, is absolutely fine! Now, this method fits on one page now, which makes
me feel happy. Of course it's very arbitrary, sure I could turn my font size down, but the way
I've got it setup, you can read it easily and our brains can hold this in
context in one go, which is great! So, that's really all I wanted to
do here, to improve this method. Even though it's not giving problems anymore, it is a
good habit to not let yourself sit with the discomfort of the fact that your code
was misbehaving OK. Even when you side step around the problem,
go back and just fix the underlying problem. You want to feel good about your stuff!
OK, that's it, that's the moral of this lesson! I will see you in the next video!